Nvidia Earnings

Nvidia's EPS Rating is 93 out of 99 and its SMR Rating is an A, on a scale of A to a worst E. The EPS rating compares a company's earnings growth to other stocks. Its SMR Rating gauges sales growth, profit margins and return on equity. On Aug. 23, the chip giant issued another big beat-and-raise report, driven by its data-center business. Year over year, Nvidia earnings rocketed 429% in Q2, while sales soared 101%. The Santa Clara, Calif.-based company's data-center revenue surged 171%. The data-center business includes the A100 and H100 AI chips needed for AI applications. For the current third quarter, Nvidia guided sales of $16 billion, up 170%, and well above estimates. "A new computing era has begun," Chief Executive Jensen Huang said in a news release. "Companies worldwide are transitioning from general-purpose to accelerated computing and generative AI." For the full year, analysts now expect Nvidia earnings to rebound 220% as sales jump 103%. Last year, Nvidia earnings fell 25% per share. Nvidia's fiscal year ends in January.
Out of 51 analysts covering NVDA stock, 49 rate it a buy. Three have a hold and no one has a sell, according to FactSet.

NVDA Backstory, Rivals

The fabless chipmaker pioneered graphics processing units, or GPUs, to make video games more realistic. It's expanding in AI chips, used in supercomputers, data centers and drug development. Nvidia's GPUs act as accelerators for central processing units, or CPUs, made by other companies. It's working on "supercomputers" combining its own CPUs and GPUs. In addition, Nvidia chips are used for Bitcoin mining and self-driving electric cars. Nvidia has made a big push into metaverse applications. Fabless chip stocks include Qualcomm (QCOM), Broadcom (AVGO) and Monolithic Power Systems (MPWR). Currently, the fabless group ranks No. 37 out of 197 industry groups. Fabless companies design the hardware while outsourcing the manufacturing to a third-party firm. For the best returns, investors should focus on companies that are leading the market and their own industry group.

Is Nvidia Stock A Buy?

On a fundamental level, Nvidia is poised for explosive growth. Earnings should more than triple this fiscal year, driven by booming chip sales for data centers and artificial intelligence. The fabless chipmaker is expanding in other growth areas, such as automated electric cars and cloud gaming, as well. The adoption of the metaverse and cryptocurrencies could further stoke demand for Nvidia chips. As war returns to the Middle East, macroeconomic uncertainties and risk of global recession have grown. NVDA stock has staged a massive comeback, more than tripling so far this year.
